#+INCLUDE: "../inc/header.html" export html
#+options: toc:nil
#+OPTIONS: html-postamble:nil
#+OPTIONS: html-style:nil
#+OPTIONS: num:nil p:nil pri:nil stat:nil tags:nil tasks:nil tex:nil timestamp:nil toc:nil title:nil
#+TITLE: suragu.net - Void Linux is the best distro that exists.
#+HTML_HEAD_EXTRA: <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/styles.css"/>
#+EXPORT_FILE_NAME: void.html
#+author: Roberto Cornell
* If IQ was given like dopamine Arch Linux would not exist.

Linux sucks, computers were a complete mistake, the humankind would be
better without computers, we would have not known about many things
and we would have not created man-made horrors beyond your
comprehesion.

Sadly, Ted did not accomplish his goal and we are still forced to use
computers, I think that computers are like drugs, they should not be
used. But if you use them anyways, you have to do them like God
intended them to be done. Using Windows is the bad way, using Linux is
the correct way to use computers, and using Linux will also work as
harm reduction for your years of life. Because despite Linux never
works, at least it lets you do whatever you want, unlike MacOS or
Windows.

I don't have to explain operating systems, or what a Linux distro is,
if you're on suragu.net I'm assuming you're at least running
Debian. If you're running Windows, how the hell did you find this
website?

Anyways, all distros out there suck for distros usage, but the ones
that suckless is Void Linux. A product from my country, Void Linux
does not seem to be affected by the Ministry of Equalty[fn:1].

Void Linux is, like Arch, a rolling-release distro, this means that it
doesn't give a shit about unstability and everything is your
responsability. The packages are usually at their most recent version,
in worst case scenarios you'll only have to wait 2-3 days to install
its most recent versions. But I'm not selling this shit either, I did
not say that Void was a good distribution, I said it sucks less, but
for example, it took, for some reason, 2 years for them to update gcc
from 10 to 12.

[[../img/gcc-update.png]]

I don't know why it took them so long, but at least they did.

** What's so good about Void Linux in contrast to $DISTRO?
#+begin_export html
<div style="border-style: dashed; color: yellow; max-width: 75%;">
<p>
<i>Disclaimer: If you use gentoo, you might not find this section
useful as you should be attended by professionals of the mental health
sectors rather than by suragu.net</i>
</p>
</div>
#+end_export

I am going to compare Void to the other 2 distros that exists: debian
and Arch.

Archfags have always been a thing, I used to use Arch, the differences
between Void and Arch are mainly 2: Void uses runit (instead of
systemd like Arch) and Arch uses the pacman package manager whereas
Void uses the X Binary Package System. Which is a good package manager
which has never filled me with an urge to cut my wrists and then kill
myself on Twitch.

The thing is that I have already phased out the Linux ultra autism and
I no longer use Void because >systemd but because I genuinely prefer
the xbps package manager to fuckman for completely understandable
reasons. For example:

- the "-y" flag means "yes" like in any other sane piece of
  software. For some reason Arch dev thought that "-y" means "--refresh"[fn:2]
- When you query the repos, xbps gives a sane, one liner output while
  pacman gives you two outputs
#+CAPTION: Sane, one line, grepeable output
[[../img/xbps-query_output.png]]
#+CAPTION: Insane, filthy, schizophrenic 2 lines output
[[../img/pacman-query_output.png]]

- xbps is way faster unlike pacman, it installs packages faster for
  some reason, depsite both xbps and pacman use the same compression
  algorithm for its packages. xbps is still faster for unknown
  reasons.
  
The only good thing about Arch Linux packages if that the -dev
packages does not exist, like in BSD systems, I wish all distros devs
knew that -dev packages are useless and header files should be
included with the share objects, some libraries also come with the .a
but that's another kind of question with another kind of answer.

Now, on Debian, well I'd like to shit on debian, actually no, because
Debian has NEVER failed me. And it is still my favorite Linux distros
for things that are not desktops, debian is the second best Linux
distro out there, which I know as the old reliable, but here are some
points that can be made to say that Void is better than Debian (but if
you use Debian as desktop you've got my respect, unless you have a
Lain wallpaper)

- xbps is faster
- I could say "up to date packages" but there always have been Debian
  Sid which is basically a rolling release Debian, which is not
  suitable for servers because "unstability" but works well in
  desktops.

  Now, you are right that writing =xbps-install= =xbps-remove= and
  =xbps-query= is a pain and it's an idiocy, you're right, i don't
  know why they did a program for everything instead of a
  subcommand. Unix Philosophy I guess, in any case, enjoy this code
  snippet for your shell:

  #+begin_src bash
    alias xi="doas xbps-install -y"
    alias xq="xbps-query"
    alias xr="doas xbps-remove"
    # Saved me from suicide
  #+end_src

** xbps-src

Archfags are addicted to this substance known as "3-MeO-AUR", which is
a dangerous neurodegenerative drug that makes you think that it is ok
for you to install a second package manager just to install 3rd-party
packages (and then they're managed by the same package manager but you
have to update them using the second package manager but you have to
remove them using the first package manager). 3-MeO-AUR also
degenerates your brain to the point that you think that Arch is a good
operating system.

Well, Void Linux main dev used to be a NetBSD dev, so there is
influence of NetBSD in void, xbps is highly inspired in the pkgsrc
port systems, so you can also build packages from source on Void Linux
like if you were in Gentoo, I don't know why someone would do that,
but the thing is that you can. You can also install packages that are
not in the repos using xbps-src, like Discord, Spotify and other
evilnesses. For this you only clone the [[https://github.com/voidlinux/void-packages][void-packages]] repository and
run the commands on the readme, =./xbps-src binary-bootstrap= and then
you can do =./xbps-src package <PACKAGE_NAME>=. You can appened CFLAGS
to the compilation like if you were in Gentoo or FreeBSD. Which is
pretty epic, I have never done it because my autism doesn't go that
far, but if you ask if you can, yes, you can.

And if there's a package that is in the AUR but not on Void Repos,
well, probably you don't really need it and/or you can just type
"make" and "make install" to install that piece of software you
want. But obscure software is usually in void main repos for some
reason, hell, you can even install emerge, apt and pacman through the
official repos, not sure why anyone would do that, but again, if you
ask if you can, indeed, you can. You can also change the configure
flags by editing the package template file, this is retarded, Gentoo
has the USEFLAGS and FreeBSD asks you for the compile options with a
TUI. But, again, I never said Void Linux was a *good* operating system

** It is like a BSD operating system

The reason of why Void Linux exists is because one guy got a pipe,
made a sandwich and /entered the void/. It was coping with the fact
that BSD did not have much hardware support but wanted to use BSD
features, so close in the core Void Linux is somewhat similar to a BSD
operating system. Even more in the past when it used LibreSSL instead
of OpenSSL, and it was the *first linux distro which truly supported
doas*. Still comes with sudo by default and doas is opt-in. I guess
that it all went downhill when the main dev ceased being in Linux
after a psychotic break on Twitter.

** It is not such a pain

I bought a GTX 1050 Ti the other day because I bought a 165hz monitor
but the Intel UHD graphics did not support 165hz at 1080p (or any
other resolution). Some people might tell me "why did you not bought a
Radeon", my answer would be "kill yourself".

I've seen many [[https://i.redd.it/so0bie4tegn61.jpg][memes]] about Nvidia on Linux being a pain, in my
experience it was just "xbps-install nvidia" and rebooting, there we
go, I can run my three monitors at 165hz without a single problem. And
DOOM (2016) runs in Ultra at 80fps at 1080p. At this point i'm flexing
my setup.

In contrast with Debian, void devs give less of a fuck about anything,
they include other package managers in their *official repos* and they
include non-free firmware so anyone can use Void Linux, this is not
Trisquel GNU+Linux, and if you have an exotic piece of software
probably you can just install it in the opt-in nonfree repos.

Shoutouts to the guy who denied the pull request to add sakisafe to
void-packages, I have a job and you're still denying pull requests,
all for free. 

#+begin_export html
<div class="outline-2">
#+end_export
[fn:1] Equalty between genders and shit, not between citizens. So if
you were a hobo before the SÃ¡nchez administration, you'll still be a
hobo after the ministry of equalty began existing (again)

[fn:2] According to the manpage -y and --refresh are equivalents.
#+begin_export html
</div>
#+end_export

